Hello, thanks for joining me
as we traverse around the country
looking at the weather forecast
for Thursday, tomorrow, and we will have
a few things to keep an eye on as well.
This trough through New South Wales moving
northwards, pushing some cooler
southerly winds through the state there.
In fact, we'll be seeing cool southerly
winds across much of southern Australia
getting driven up by this approaching
high pressure area to the south-west
that is going to be moving
towards the country during Thursday,
sticking around for several days
after that as well, leading
to some slightly chilly,
but generally, quite
settled weather across the southern
half of the country.
There is these breaks of really
fine conditions around most of Queensland
where flooding is ongoing,
but if we track further
north across North Queensland,
the Northern Territory and the Kimberley,
we will see showers and thunderstorms
with the risk of heavy rainfall.
For Queensland specifically,
should be a pretty bright day
from about Townsville,
Bowen, Whitsundays southwards.
The flood situation across
the east is evolving, but in general
lots of those river levels
are starting to come down now
as it's been a couple of days
since that heavy rain ceased.
Brisbane should have a sunny day,
quite a warm one as well.
High of 34°C.
We're looking at similar temperatures
across the south-east
and the southern interior.
Rain, showers and storms expected
across the north through the Herbert and Lower Burdekin,
North Tropical Coast, Cape York
Peninsula and the Gulf of Carpentaria.
This trough is going to be moving
northwards through New South Wales
through the morning,
bringing chillier winds.
So, expect the temperature to drop, actually
for many places
around the middle of the day,
including in and around Sydney,
we could see those temperatures
fall from the high 20s to the lower 20s
for the afternoon.
That change in wind and that cooler air
coming up from the south
won't generate much shower activity
but we could see a few light falls,
particularly from Newcastle northwards.
Can't rule out 1 or 2
light falls elsewhere along the coast.
Fine in the south.
Fine in the west, with temperatures
a few degrees cooler than recent days.
It's feeling a little cooler
across Victoria as well.
Southwesterly winds are bringing
a very autumnal feel to the weather
on Thursday, with temperatures
in the high teens to mid 20s.
There'll be a little bit of light rain
caught up in that wind flow as well on
and south
of the Victorian mountain ranges,
so we could see a spot
or two of right around Warrnambool,
all the way out to South Australia,
then and through Melbourne
and across parts of Gippsland as well
but none of that rain
will be heavy or persistent.
And that same wind,
which is dragging the cooler air
to Victoria, is doing likewise down here
in Tasmania.
Temperatures in the teens for Thursday,
a little bit gusty as well.
The southwesterlies will pepper the west
coast with showers throughout the day.
Hobart might get 1 or 2 light showers,
but there shouldn't be much
in the rain gauges.
And for other eastern and northern parts,
dry and mostly sunny weather expected
from Maria Island up through Swansea
and St Helens and then around
the north coast through Launceston, Devonport,
Burnie and Wynyard.
There will be a general
air of cloudiness across the southern part
of South Australia on Thursday.
That's the case across the south-east,
through the peninsulas, the islands,
the southern ranges, really
all of those southern growing regions.
Fairly cloudy,
maybe a spot of light drizzle as well,
but certainly nothing significant
accumulating in your rain gauge.
Further north, bright sunny skies,
with temperatures a little cooler
than they've been over recent days
across the pastoral districts,
through parts of the Flinders, the,
the Riverland and the Murraylands.
A dry, bright, mostly sunny day expected
in Perth with a high of 29°C
and it's a similar story
right along the west coast.
Showers down in the south, with the
possibility of some rain and thunderstorms
to areas east of Kalgoorlie-Boulder, out
towards the Eucla and southern interior.
Further north,
sunny skies expected across the Pilbara
with a low risk of an afternoon
shower or thunderstorm.
The risk is much higher through these parts
for some rainfall on Thursday,
particularly between Darwin
and Tennant Creek, where we could see
some widespread storm activity building,
through the course of the day.
That could bring some heavy falls,
and that may lead to renewed rises along
our flooded rivers across the Top End.
So, perhaps some of those rivers
will take a few extra days to subside.
Some wet conditions are also expected
around the northern Kimberley,
but from Broome southwards
it should be a bright, clear day
as it will be around
central parts of the country.
And that's the wrap for now.
You can always get more weather info
on the BOM website or the BOM weather app
or you can check in with us again
for tomorrow's National Weather Forecast.